NARRATOR: On this planet
of six billion people,
there are six billion stories.
This is one of them.
It's about one man's life.
It's about UFOs,
which he has filmed
in the high heavens
and ETs and orbs
and the gods who
created humanity.
It's a true story about
a man who has come back
from the dead to a planet that
is undergoing dramatic Earth
changes that will
affect all of us
much sooner than we
might care to admit.
It is one story among
six billion stories.
It is James Gilliland's story.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
MALE SPEAKER: Two
ships coming out.
MALE SPEAKER: Yeah.
MALE SPEAKER: I got them both.
MALE SPEAKER: Oh,
they're both powered up.
Hello.
MALE SPEAKER: They're
both powered up.
Holy smokes, I got both
of them powering up.
[CHEERING]
Got 'em.
Two ships.
A double powering up.
MALE SPEAKER: All right.
Look at that.
Yeah, as far as the
skeptics, I find it really
humorous basically because
I've had so many experiences
there is no doubt
in my mind that this
is a real event going on.
And the evidence that we
have here is overwhelming.
MALE SPEAKER: I
got them on film.
I got the laser too.
The laser is showing
up on the film.
MALE SPEAKER: Now it's moving.
MALE SPEAKER: Dang.
MALE SPEAKER: Blanket
with the laser.
Like three and then two.
NARRATOR: What we are seeing
against a backdrop of space
itself is UFO footage shot
over a period of years
by James Gilliland,
a man who's built
a sanctuary near Mount Adams
in the state of Washington.
James has experienced
contact with ETs,
off worlders from other
galaxies and dimensions.
But he's not the only one to
wonder about these visitors
from elsewhere.
The main thing is we
have professional people
that are air traffic
controllers, pilots.
They know what
they're looking at.
And Air Force.
We've had Air Force
Base commanders here.
One of the ships that we
filmed is just beautiful
and it comes in and it's
actually pink in the middle.
Has blue on the
outside, turquoise
at the top and the bottom.
You see these rotating
fields on the ship
and it's pulsing like a heart.
MALE SPEAKER: I got him.
MALE SPEAKER: I don't have him.
I got him.
Check him out, man.
He's going.
You should see the
field around this guy.
I've got him all the way.
Come on, light her up.
Do something.
MALE SPEAKER: Every time
I zoom in, I lose it.
MALE SPEAKER: Oh, look it.
He's pulsing now.
This is the first
UFO on this camera.
And the physicists I had
a look at this, they said,
we have no idea what that is.
That's-- they said,
all we can say is
there's extremely high
technology involved
in this and electronics.
And it's operating in some
kind of a light spectrum.
And it's beyond
anything that we have.
A lot of these
experiences that I've had
have helped me to understand
the true nature of man, which
is in truth the
multidimensional being existing
on a vibrational continuum.
And almost all the
physicists believe right now
that we can measure and
experience less than 1%
of the universe that we live in.
There's another 99% out there.
They also know, according
to latest superstring theory
and things of that
nature, that there's
at least 11 dimensions out
there beyond this dimension.
And you look at all
the diversity of life
in just this dimension alone and
add 10 more dimensions to that.
You can imagine
what's out there.
And if you look at
this physical universe
we're in with 200 billion
suns with planets revolving
around them, and now they
know there's at least 500
billion galaxies out there
with the same effect,
whole new galaxies and universes
are being created daily.
The creation is ongoing.
So I'm just saying
according to this science
that we know today, the
science is there to explain
all of these events
and my experiences
fit within that science.
But if people just
believe they're
a body and a personality,
that's their reality.
NARRATOR: In 1947
over Mount Rainer,
Washington, pilot Kenneth Arnold
saw a group of flying saucers.
Since then the
Washington Cascades
have changed dramatically.
The eruption of Mount
Saint Helens in 1980
killed scores of people and
changed the landscape forever.
It's now a tourist attraction.
Nearby Mount Adams, where those
flying saucers disappeared,
is still a focal
point of UFO activity.
James was drawn there after
near death experiences,
contact, and abductions.
The beings that we were
connecting with were Nordic.
More Nordic looking.
Very advanced.
And there was more
than one group.
They were the ones that were
initiating the experience,
but there's others involved too.
I was here at the
ranch for 10 years
doing the intense spiritual
practices and the meditation
work and assisting others
in process oriented work
and inner sensitivity training.
And one day I was
in deep meditation
and I started hearing
communication,
a transmission in my head.
And it was a
beautiful transmission
about the awakening and healing
of humanity and the Earth
and how we have to rise
up in consciousness
and start living in harmony
with each other and the planet
and end the competition and
the greed and the separation.
And it was a very
beautiful message.
And I asked, where
is this coming from?
And-- because there's many,
many levels of consciousness
that we can attune to with
beings all along those levels.
And they said-- they said,
we're actually coming from fifth
and sixth dimension is
what we're working in.
And they said, but in truth
we're coming from a ship.
And-- and that was
when I said, OK.
I'm done.
My imagination has run amok.
I quit.
I'm going to go out
and plant some trees.
I need to get grounded
here because this
is getting too weird.
I didn't even make
it to the front door
when my two sisters came
up banging on the door.
And said, did you see it?
Did you see it?
And I said, see what?
And they said, there
was a ship hovering
right over the sanctuary here.
So that was the
first communication
I had where I had to incorporate
the ships with my spirituality.
NARRATOR: It's been at least
a 20 year project for James
Gilliland to land to build
his way up from bare dirt
to the point that
he had at least
the shell of a conference hall
established on a sanctuary.
And although he's had
help from some quarters,
he's had to deal with
opposition from others.
But the dream has
kept him going.
And by mid-2006, he was ready
to stage the Science, Spirit,
and Well Transformation
Conference that would include
speakers who would
throw a bright light
on the true history of humanity,
the art of diplomacy with ETs,
coming earth changes, and
explain what orbs are.
It was a conference
for open minds
and important questions
that attracted people
from throughout
the United States
and overseas, all
interested in contact
and important questions
like, where did we come from
and why are we here?
Many believe life itself
arose on Earth exclusively
and that somehow
it's man's destiny
to populate the vast and
empty reaches of space.
But ancient texts and
legends and teachers
tell of a different history,
a past in which very advanced
civilizations visited Earth,
terraformed the planet, created
humans through
genetic engineering,
then left to allow us to
evolve at our own pace.
In the Biblical manuscripts,
the stories of the creation
of the Earth, the
ancient occupants,
the nephalem, the giants, are
just scattered here and there.
In the Zohar, in the Kabbalah,
they are replete with them.
They were not sterilized
from these records.
And what the
exopolitics model holds
is that we live in a highly
populated universe populated
by intelligent, evolving
civilizations operating
under universe law with some
form of governance systems
mediated by universe politics.
And we here on Earth are just
now becoming aware of this.
Historically, in
conflicts, in wars,
what one side-- typically
what both sides do
is that they depict
the other side using
the stereotypes of the enemy.
And so you create an enemy.
You stereotype them.
Typically you motivate people
to go out and kill those
on the other side
by inculcating them
with this very
deep indoctrination
of them being the enemy.
Orbs are many different things.
They're nonphysical beings.
They're coming from a higher
dimension than we are.
When we die, we leave the body.
We move up through the
spine, we come on out
and we blast on out
as a light spear.
And we become an orb.
So some of these orbs
are disincarnate beings.
Some orbs are ultra
dimensional beings coming
from a much higher frequency.
Some of the orbs
are nature spirits.
Now I've been here 20 years
doing intense spiritual work
and practices and meditation and
anchoring the energy in here.
And-- which, is what opened
the door to the ET connections.
They have a technology
to actually--
they can take you out
of bed physically,
put you on the ship, and-- and
they put you right back in bed.
But it's is so vivid
what happened is--
is that you would--you
would think it was a dream.
I had a golden ball of energy.
I was actually in the
bathtub at the time.
And I said I'm really
tired of all this high
flying activity
and the power ups
and the turns and everything.
I said, that's all
great but what the heck
is my involvement here?
Why am I involved in this?
I really want to know.
And I said, you know, I
don't care if this kills me.
I need to know the
answer to this.
Three gold balls of energy come
down and hit me in the chest.
And the next thing I
know I'm on the ship,
standing there talking
to this beautiful being.
And her name is Melia
and she's from the Orion
Council of Light.
And they have these huge
golden plasma ships which we've
filmed over the center here.
And they're very ancient.
And when I looked at her,
I could see all races
combined in one person.
The first thing I asked her was
what the headdress was about.
Because she had like a bathing
cap type thing with gold bars
suspended above it.
And she said this
is a spiritual form
of technology we use to initiate
people, to wake people up.
And a lot of people
have incarnated
on the Earth for these times
and-- and we're initiating
them, waking them up.
And then I asked her what the
three gold balls of energy
were.
And she said, all
of your memories
have been returned to you.
And after that experience,
I had full knowledge
of all of my past lives, as
well as off world existences
as well.
The last thing I said to her
was, I want physical proof
that this is just not a dream.
And she said you have
all the proof you need.
Next thing, boom, I was
back in the bath tub.
And I got up out of the bathtub
and I looked in the mirror
and I had this big burn mark
in the middle of my chest
where the beam hit me.
And we actually took
photographs of it, you know.
And there was no pain involved.
It looked painful.
There was no pain
involved in it at all.
And I couldn't deny the event
because every time I got out
of the bath tub or looked in the
mirror I had this big red burn
mark in the middle of my chest.
I would have to say the main
question that should have been
asked is, why are they here?
Not do they exist?
Are they real?
The evidence is overwhelming
that they are here.
And we all know they're here.
The government
knows they're here.
All the governments
know they're here
and the masses of the people
know that they're here.
No, let's take it
to the next step.
Why are they here?
And there's different groups
with different agendas.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
VIDEO NARRATOR: On the sandy
waste of Yucca Flat, Nevada,
a new series of atomic
explosion are set off.
Tanks are among
the pieces of army
equipment being tested
in the exercises,
called Operation Teapot.
More than 9,000 servicemen
have been assembled
at the proving grounds,
ready to take their places
in forward trenches.
The familiar mushroom
cloud snakes skyward.
[EXPLOSION]
The sound and shockwaves
roll over the men
huddled in the trenches.
Never before have [AUDIO OUT]
had such a close up view.
[EXPLOSION]
Quickly, the men are ordered
to leave their positions.
The explosion's radioactive
fallout is almost as
dangerous as the blast itself.
NARRATOR: Nuclear
test programs, which
began in the Second
World War, have
been closely monitored by UFOs.
They've been taking a close
interest because these weapons
could potentially annihilate
all life on Earth,
but also seriously impact
other dimensions as well.
Yet even though many
pilots and astronauts
have had personal encounters,
not to mention former President
Jimmy Carter, all of
this is officially denied
or dismissed by the military.
You'll hear people
all the time that have
very high clearances who will
say, oh, this is all bunk
and it's not real.
And a lot of them
are telling the truth
because that is their truth.
It's not real for them because
they're out of the loop.
One guy in particular
was a colonel.
He called me one day and he
got very upset saying, what
are you doing talking
about these UFOs
and all this other nonsense?
It's all a bunch of
bunk and how-- you know,
how dare you mislead the people?
And all of this stuff.
And you need to
stop it right now.
And I said, well-- I said I only
have two things to say to you.
And I said, you
know, the first thing
is can you spell civilian.
[LAUGHTER]
You know?
And the second
thing is that, how
come you're out of the loop?
And he got really quiet.
And I said, you mean to
tell me you're a colonel
and you don't know about all
the back engineering going
on and all the UFO activity?
And I said, you know,
your jets are here chasing
them on a constant basis.
MALE SPEAKER: This is military.
I recognize.
It's got the green, the red.
It's coming in right on the UFO.
He goes basically, he said, we
just want to catch one of them.
MALE SPEAKER: Oh, here they are.
What happens is these
jets will come in.
And they have some
pretty interesting craft
up there that are very exotic.
They're very quiet
and very fast.
MALE SPEAKER: OK.
Here's a obvious military
jet coming right over us.
It's got a strobe
and two lights.
Again, these are
totally obvious and it's
obvious these aren't the
UFOs that we've been filming.
And they come in on these UFOs.
And the UFOs will
just be sitting there.
This jet comes screaming
in on this UFO.
All of a sudden
the UFO just-- pop.
Disappears.
NARRATOR: Skeptics argue
that UFOs are constrained
by Newtonian physics, and
even at the speed of light
it would take decades to
travel from star to star.
But quantum physics says
action at a distance
enables virtually instantaneous
information transfer.
And it's these
secrets of science
that advanced ETs apparently
use to bypass time as we know it
and appear where and
when they choose.
MALE SPEAKER: Hey, you guys.
Oh, come on.
Light up again.
The ships that
come in here power
up for the people on the ground.
And we have a joke about--
we call it dazzle duty.
You know, they come in to
show us that they are here
and make themselves known.
And it's amazing
because they'll come in
and they'll do a tremendous
burst of light and power up
and you feel it.
I have photographs
of these ships that
are just a brilliant light.
And then they start stepping
their frequencies down.
And you can see it becoming
more and more physical.
And in the end it looks organic.
It's amazing.
But it's a big pill shaped.
And it looks like it's
made out of some kind
of living organic material.
NARRATOR: So we have
these exotic jets
chasing exotic fireballs as
they might describe them.
[LAUGHTER]
Yes.
NARRATOR: And we also
have black helicopters.
I have some great footage
of black helicopters
that visit us on
a regular basis.
And some other helicopters too
that seem to be retrofitted.
And they have-- they're
older helicopters
but they have jet
engines in them.
And they have some
incredible gear on then.
MALE SPEAKER: 12:35.
Monday.
Yeah, I got a good--
MALE SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
MALE SPEAKER: --a
good image of them.
MALE SPEAKER: Who is it?
MALE SPEAKER: No markings.
And they have strange
torrents underneath them
like a giant pie dish with all
this gear on it that rotates.
And tubes on the front, these
big tubes and all this gear.
I asked people in the Air
Force about these helicopters
and said, oh, yeah.
We've seen them.
When they land, they
land a distance away
and they have their own
people that fuel them,
that take care of them.
You can't go anywhere
near these helicopters.
NARRATOR: James has also
seen stealth bombers
and filmed military helicopters
equipped with powerful search
lights, for some reason
operating over his sanctuary
during daylight.
He says perhaps they
were trying to fool
him into making
a fool of himself
by claiming this is UFO footage.
It isn't.
UFOs thoughts have
a higher clearance
rating than nuclear bombs.
It's amazing as far
as keeping it quiet.
NARRATOR: Gemini
astronaut Gordon Cooper,
a hero to Americans
who are rightly
proud of their
public space program,
did not keep completely
quiet about UFOs.
He said as a fighter pilot
in Germany he chased UFOs,
and after leaving NASA he's
reported as saying he'd
lived with a secret
imposed on the astronauts--
that radar captures
unknown objects every day.
Cooper, in fact,
believed Earth was
being visited by very advanced
beings not of this world.
But that's something the public
has never been told officially.
Anything that NASA experiences
or SETI experiences with UFOs
have to go through NSA,
where they decide whether it
gets released or not.
And it dies right there.
MALE SPEAKER: Holy smokes.
This guy is big.
MALE SPEAKER: Yeah, it is.
FEMALE SPEAKER: James.
MALE SPEAKER: This is coming.
MALE SPEAKER: He's out here.
FEMALE SPEAKER: OK.
MALE SPEAKER: Look at this guy.
Did you see this guy coming in?
We got one on the tree tops
and one going overhead.
MALE SPEAKER: Powering up.
FEMALE SPEAKER: See the one--
A while back we
issued a statement
called the SETI challenge.
And both with NASA too as well.
And we said we'll all of
our evidence on the table.
MALE SPEAKER: Wow, look at that.
MALE SPEAKER: Huge.
MALE SPEAKER: Look at it.
Oh, it doubled.
There it goes.
It's doubling.
MALE SPEAKER: Huge.
MALE SPEAKER: It split into two.
It split into two.
MALE SPEAKER: Woo.
Thank you very much.
MALE SPEAKER: Now
it has another one.
MALE SPEAKER: Woohoo.
MALE SPEAKER: Wow.
It's doubled.
Oh, now it's going back.
It's morphing back into--
MALE SPEAKER: Yeah.
MALE SPEAKER: Oh, no.
It's three.
MALE SPEAKER: It is.
MALE SPEAKER: No, it's two now.
MALE SPEAKER: I
saw three before.
MALE SPEAKER: See, I can see--
MALE SPEAKER: It's
totally doing this.
Whoa.
And we have probably over 60
or 70 hours of footage of UFOs
here that are coming in.
They're responding to
the people on the ground.
They're landing.
They're morphing from one
to four back to one again.
Making right angle
turns and exploding
in tremendous balls of light.
MALE SPEAKER: Holy shit.
That thing's huge.
Here, it's going
back down again.
And we have all
of this footage,
as well as photograph of
metallic craft as well.
And we agreed to take all
of this footage, put it
on the table, and they
could put all their footage
on the table of UFOs.
And whoever has the best footage
walks away with the funding.
And so nobody took us up
on that, unfortunately.
But the other part of
that process was too
is that all of the footage
is public domain after that.
It's available to everybody.
I think the reasons
why they're not
making it available to
the public are many fold.
One is basically whoever has
the best technology in wartime
usually wins the war.
And so in the interest
of nationally security,
they didn't want other
people to know that we've
been back engineering
these projects
and developing weaponry
and things of that nature
from crash sites.
And Corso wrote a very good book
about that about all the back
engineered technology, which
involves computer chips
and microwave and fiber optics.
And all of these
things were gleaned
out of the many crash sites.
MALE SPEAKER: Look at that.
Oh, my God.
Look at the purple coming off.
Can you see it?
FEMALE SPEAKER: Yeah.
MALE SPEAKER: Yeah.
And as we said before,
there were low level contacts
in the past, but now it's
evolving into a much higher
level contact, you might say.
And the benevolent
and spiritually
and technologically advanced
beings are coming in now.
And this is the part
that's not covered,
that's not being addressed.
Because a lot of the people that
are in the positions that could
address this don't have the
spiritual awareness to even
understand this phenomenon.
They haven't risen
to the occasion.
The fearlessness it takes
to bring this message out
isn't there because
they're so afraid of being
ridiculed or being laughed
at or their careers ending.
NARRATOR: Recording timecode as
he filmed UFOs over many years
has been a practice
that adds credibility
to the scores of
hours of footage
of UFOs filmed at
James Gilliland's
Trout Lake property.
MALE SPEAKER: Whoa,
he's lighting up.
FEMALE SPEAKER: Whoa.
Light it up.
MALE SPEAKER: Whoa,
he's lighting up.
FEMALE SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE].
MALE SPEAKER: Paul.
FEMALE SPEAKER: Yes, ma'am.
MALE SPEAKER: Whoa.
FEMALE SPEAKER: OK.
Did you see that?
The way we discern what is
a true UFO and what is not
is that one of things
we use is Heavens Above
website, which gives
us a very clear
idea of what's in our area.
We'll know when--
exactly when the space
station is flying over.
They have this new project
called Genesis up there
and it's on Heavens Above.
The iridium flares
are on Heavens Above.
And Envisat, which is
another big satellite
that puts out quite a light.
Contact for the masses
is already underway.
It's been underway
for some time.
And what they're
doing is they're
making themselves visible
now much more than before.
Madrid just had hundreds
of ships flying over.
You know, the capital of Spain.
China is seeing all
kinds of UFO activity.
Mexico.
It's unprecedented with
thousands of ships in the air.
I've seen footage
of ships over Mexico
where the whole
frame is full of UFOs
and they're all moving
synchronistically.
So this is happening
on a regular basis.
Peru, Brazil, everywhere.
And it's headline news.
It's a total
headline news there.
But where is our press?
Why-- you've got a whole
flotilla flying over capitals
of countries that
are being witnessed
by thousands of
people, but where--
why is that not in our news?
We have to ask that question.
And the answer is quite simple.
The news is totally controlled.
NARRATOR: In January 2007,
two months after the event,
the media reported
that a UFO was
sighted over Chicago's
O'Hare Airport
by pilots and ground crew.
It hovered, then shot
up through the clouds.
Officialdom, as
always, dismissed it
as a weather phenomenon.
But how do you dismiss former
Arizona state governor, Fife
Symington, also a pilot,
who tells The Arizona Star
that the lights
seen over Phoenix
a decade ago were
from another world.
I think if I had
control of the news
I would put more spiritual
content, more positive content.
More information concerning
fuel-less energy breakthroughs.
Which is also taboo.
You never hear about that.
I would bring forward
major cures for diseases
which have been held back.
I would bring
forward people that
are on the forefront
of these technologies
and this new wisdom coming out.
NARRATOR: So who
is James Gilliland?
A man on a sanctuary
who's had near death
experiences, UFO visits, and
contact with advanced ETs.
But as others on the
forefront of radical thinking
have discovered, peace often
follows adversity, which
can lead to deep reflection
on serious spiritual issues,
extensive and life changing
study of many great teachings,
and eventually a
sense that personality
is not the yardstick by
which to introduce oneself.
I have a hard time
talking about myself.
I'd rather be
referred to as nobody
because I'm not
really important.
What's important is
this information.
And if you are
nobody, there's nobody
that needs defending
when you bring out
this outrageous information.
NARRATOR: Near death experiences
are not everybody's experience.
Mmhmm.
NARRATOR: How do they
happen to you and how often?
The first experiences I had
when I was about five years
old, I had bronchial pneumonia.
And I kept going
in between worlds.
And I had a woman
that appeared to me
and she was dressed in blue
and had electric blue eyes.
Just beautiful.
And her energy was
beautiful as well,
extremely loving and nurturing.
And she kept coming to me.
And she would stroke my head and
just be with me and talk to me.
And then she gave me this
substance that seemed
like ice cream, but it wasn't.
It wasn't cold but it had
the texture of ice cream.
And I would eat this ice
cream and then I would
get better all of a sudden.
And this happened
four or five times.
They called my parents and
said, we don't think he's going
to make it through the night.
NARRATOR: You were in hospital?
-Yes.
I was in a hospital.
After that experience,
I moved into the world
of social consciousness
going through, you know,
elementary school
and high school
and making my mark
in the world, trying
to be accepted and approved of.
Trying to win, you know,
the love of my life
through outer appearances.
Because all that
programming you get,
you've got to have the
fancy car, the fancy house,
the fancy clothes.
NARRATOR: Were you successful?
Actually, I was.
I was very successful at
acquiring all those things
until I realized that
they were meaningless
and that I was going about
it all the wrong way.
And then I had the
real awakening was when
I had the drowning experience.
And I was out body surfing and--
NARRATOR: Where abouts?
It was a place
called a Little Corona
down in Southern California next
to what they call the Wedge.
And we're way out on
a sand bar with about
six to eight foot waves.
And just having a great time.
And the next thing you know
these sneaker waves came in.
A sneaker wave is where three
waves will back up together
and they come in out of nowhere.
And it's usually because of a
storm or some other instability
out in the ocean.
And these waves came in.
And they were measured.
They were in the newspaper.
They were 17 to 25 foot waves.
And we were pretty
far out on a sand bar
and there was nowhere to go.
There's just this big huge
wall of water coming at you.
And when the first wave hit
me, I was doing everything
I could do to get under it.
And it crashed right on top of
me and dislocated my shoulder
and knocked the wind out of
me and just hit me like a fly.
Held me under forever.
And when I finally came
up after that wave hit,
I couldn't get
any air because it
hit me so hard my
diaphragm was collapsed
and I was trying to breathe.
I had the wind
knocked out of me.
And the next wave came,
pulled me under again
and held me forever.
And so when I finally
struggled to get up out
of the second wave,
the third wave came.
And then I just gave up.
I said, well, that's it.
You know, there's-- and I
remember the tunnel of light
that everybody talks about.
I went through the tunnel.
I didn't have people
there to greet me.
I saw a lot of levels.
And I just blasted through
these levels and kept going.
And I ended up in what
they call the golden plane
of bliss where you're
held in the arms of God
or the cradle of God.
My experience there was
that I was a light being.
There was a greater
light and a greater
consciousness surrounding me.
I still had a sense
of self, but there's
a much greater self
that was surrounding me,
but I was a part of that.
And we had a communication
going back and forth.
And it was the most loving,
joyous, secure, blissful energy
you could imagine.
I had no understanding
of myself as being dead.
That seemed to be a whole
nother something I left behind
because I was fully
awake and fully
alive and fully conscious.
I just didn't have the
limitations of the body
anymore in that realm.
And I had a conversation
with this consciousness.
And the first thing I
asked was, how can I stay?
The voice came back to me.
And it was a
transmission, thought
to thought transmission.
And it said, I've never
told any of my children
when to come or go.
That's free will.
And so I had to start letting
go of my old images of God
that were given me because I--
through the Catholic church,
actually.
I had to go to a Catholic
church when I was in the desert
because it was the
only school there.
The second thing
I asked was, how
can I earn the right to stay?
And the voice came
back to me and says,
you cannot earn what is given
freely and unconditionally.
And so I'm going, wait a minute.
Here's the program
I have to release.
That I have to win
favor of God or I
have to do all these things
to get love and acceptance
and approval of God.
And the voice came back to me.
And it said, what
do you want to do?
What brings you joy?
And I was waiting for this big
long list of all these things
I was going to have to do.
And all the source wanted me to
do was do what brought me joy.
So I thought about it and I
said, I want to come back.
I want to return
and teach people
about the true nature of God.
The last words I heard from
the source were, as you wish.
And the next thing I know I
felt myself back in my body
and I felt somebody
grabbing my arm
and pulling me in
out of the water.
And I was crawling
up to the beach.
And I passed out.
And I woke up in a
big pool of water,
the water was coming out
of my lungs and everything
with somebody yelling my name.
The near death experiences
started me on a path
where-- especially the drowning.
I wanted to connect
again with that pure love
and joy and bliss and
reestablish that connection
and understand it.
Because I didn't really have
any framework to understand it.
And when I returned,
I was ultra sensitive
again, even more sensitive
than I was when I was a kid.
And I was struggling
because I was
experiencing the whole gamut.
I was experiencing incredible
beings of light and very loving
powerful beings, but I was
also experiencing some lower,
discarnate beings and some
forces that weren't so nice,
you might say.
And that's what led me into the
teachings of the inner Christ,
which is a very powerful
teaching that teaches you how
to heal unseen negative
influences, how to manifest,
how to maintain your energies
and make sure you're receiving
guidance of the highest levels.
And from there, I went
to the Tibetan Foundation
where I was certified as
one of their best channels.
One of the experiences I had
after the near death experience
is that within the Tibetan
Foundation I left my body again
and I went to a very high
plane where I met this being
by the name of Cazekiel, which
is a merged energy of Cassia,
a feminine energy, and Ezekial,
the original contactee,
you might say, that we know of.
He talks about
these metallic ships
in the firmament coming down.
They had bronze
feet like calves.
They had fire and
brimstone coming
out from underneath them.
When they landed, they sounded
like a thousand rushing rivers.
And what is that with today's
mentality or awareness?
You listen to this and you
go, boy, that was a ship.
Out of it come
cherubim, which were
wheels within
wheels with flashing
lights all around them.
They were moving all around.
In Santa Cruz I was very-- I
had it made there, basically.
I had a beautiful house right
on the beach, had a nice hot tub
and the classes
were going great.
And I just pretty much
rode my bike everywhere.
And I kept having these visions
and I would see the buildings.
I mean, I would see
that-- the ranch here
and what I wanted to create here
over and over again in my mind.
But at the same
time, I was having
visions of some
major earth changes
coming to the Santa Cruz area.
And I saw some major
earthquakes hitting that area.
And I also saw some
tsunamis in the future
that were going to come in.
And I gave the exact date
and time of the big San
Francisco earthquake.
NARRATOR: United States
Geological Survey records
tell us that at five in the
afternoon on October 17, 1989,
the San Andreas fault system
had its first major quake
since 1906.
62 people died.
Almost 4,000 were injured.
The epicenter was located near
Loma Prieta peak in the Santa
Cruz mountains, approximately
nine miles northeast
of James Gilliland's
home in Santa Cruz.
It caused over $6
billion in damage.
Over 18,000 homes and 2,600
businesses were damaged,
and about 3,000 people
were left homeless.
And the only thing I missed
was, I was told it would be 6.9
and in the end it was 7.1.
But the first readings were 6.9.
After the Tibetan
Foundation, I went
into about six years of
intense yoga training
with different yogis.
And I also went
through an initiation
with the Tibetan master as well.
And what's interesting,
each one of these masters
recognized something
very different about me
and got very
excited when we met.
And they knew that I had a
very big mission here on Earth.
And all of them validated
the work that I'm doing.
NARRATOR: Those who
have put out the thought
of conscious contact and then
seen a UFO do a power up know
for certain that they have
contacted and been contacted
by something out of this world.
And then those who are becoming
enlightened also know there is
another type of UFO,
much closer to home,
waiting to power up,
waiting to be discovered.
The greatest year
for we're ever
going to experience
on the planet
is our own physical bodies.
And when we can increase
our frequencies,
we can actually move
out of these bodies
and experience all of these
other planes and dimensions.
We have that
capability within us.
And we also have the
capability to actually take
the body with us as
well in what they
call the ascension process.
NARRATOR: The ET
connection would
come to James at Mount
Adams, revered for centuries
by Native Americans.
The Yakama Tribe has many
stories of unusual craft
and lights in its vicinity,
and for James, himself
part Cherokee, it was as if
the mountain was calling,
at least in visions
which were now
a regular feature of his life.
JAMES: I was receiving
visions over and over again.
And the visions showed me
this beautiful mountain,
a river on the eastern
border, and then a little
mountain behind me.
And I actually saw the
letters little mountain
and I didn't know what that--
I said, why are they focusing
on the little mountain?
It makes no sense
whatsoever when
you have this massive Mount
Adams in front of you,
which is just beautiful.
And I kept seeing this
vision over and over again.
And so I grabbed a map
of the United States.
And I got a pendulum and I was
going over the map to find it.
My hand got real
hot over Trout Lake.
And it just started spinning
radically, the pendulum.
And I marked it on the map.
And my whole focus was to
create a template of heaven
on Earth, how we can
live a wholesome,
spiritual life in harmony
with nature and each other.
NARRATOR: So something
triggered you at some point
to make the move.
Yeah.
It was a combination of seeing
the vision and my purpose,
knowing that I was supposed
to build this template, a much
bigger center.
And to do a lot of the things
that I was teaching there.
NARRATOR: James has
photographic evidence
of the higher frequencies and
realms that he's experienced.
While the human brain
filters certain frequencies,
digital cameras
record energy fields
and entities that are unseen
by the average human mind.
Detractors may
attempt to explain
these anomalies away
as lens aberrations,
but the evidence persists.
Orbs, for example, which are
conscious but disembodied
beings, and plasma
entities as well,
are frequently photographed
at James' ranch.
And this is a black night sky
where visitors are engaged
in what's termed a sky watch.
They're scanning the skies
above Mount Adams in the hope
of seeing UFOs for themselves.
And many do have
that experience.
MALE SPEAKER: There it goes.
Here it goes.
It's going.
Woo hoo.
Check it out.
Look at that.
MALE SPEAKER: Holy smokes.
MALE SPEAKER: Thank you.
NARRATOR: Critics, of
course, continue to deny
that any of this is real.
But many more have a genuine
desire to actually experience
visual and conscious contact.
Some of these ships that
are coming over here right,
now some look like satellites.
And some are satellites
and some are not.
And the only you
can tell, really,
is through being able to
connect with them consciously.
But they'll fly high first
and they scan the group
and see where you're
at in consciousness.
In the very beginning,
some of the ETs
that came here, which-- are
what I call low level contacts--
had an agenda.
And it wasn't in our
highest and best good.
And they aligned with people who
also had the same consciousness
because the mind
in which you seek
is the mind which you connect.
So we have people that were more
focused on technology and war.
And that was their whole
drive, is to have the best
technology to win the wars.
And so they connected with
some low level contacts.
At the same time,
there was another group
that came in that said, look.
We're not going to
give you the technology
until you choose peace.
And that is the
group that we should
have aligned ourselves with.
But instead they aligned
with the lower evolved ETs,
you might say, for technology.
And there was a
trade involved where
they were actually abducting
people and using genetics.
NARRATOR: The great questions
are, where did we come from?
Why are we here?
Well, what if space was, in
fact, the birthplace of DNA
as we know it, DNA shared
throughout the galaxies
by evolving civilizations.
And what if our grossly
misnamed junk DNA is actually
the DNA of the gods,
waiting to be activated
and holding within it
the keys to our future
as genuinely enlightened members
of the intergalactic family?
We have extremely incredible
genetics on this planet.
We have the genetics
from the star nations,
you might say, from so
many different beings
are on this planet.
It's a big smorgasbord or zoo
of genetics, you might say.
Not just human
genetics, but animal
and plant genetics as well.
So this is such an amazing
place because of the diversity
of life here and the diversity
of genetics is nowhere else
in the universe.
And it needs to be
preserved because of that.
NARRATOR: DNA from Earth
might save a dying space race.
But the human race, though
it has reached for the moon,
seems almost oblivious to
what's really happening at home.
Preoccupied with endless wars,
we ignore global warming,
hurricanes, widespread
destruction,
pollution on a global scale
from the melting Antarctica
and ozone depletion
to the melting Arctic
where wildlife is
increasingly endangered.
What was once a mother planet
that nurtured all its species
is now a mother in
danger of dying.
The greater family
of man or the off
worlders you might
call them are deeply
concerned with where we're going
concerning the environment.
We've had the earthquakes
and volcanic activity
has increased 400%.
We've got over 50 plus
active volcanoes right now
and counting.
How many volcanoes
could erupt if prompted
by a large gravitational field?
This is the location of all
the volcanoes on the Earth.
JAMES: There's undersea
volcanoes going off.
That's also heating
up the ocean.
MALE SPEAKER: Look at the yellow
there with it-- oh, my God.
JAMES: There's over 50 dead
zones in the ocean right now.
One of them is over
700 miles wide.
There's another
bigger one that's
opening going up right now.
There's no plankton there.
So again, there's no oxygen.
NARRATOR: Doctor Robert Diaz
of the Virginia Institute
of Marine Science notes that
dead zones are most often
associated with population areas
and to nutrient runoff, which
can cause complete oxygen
depletion and total
mortality of marine life.
Oregon State University
is researching
an unusual dead zone
related series of events
off the Pacific Northwest.
They're finding huge
numbers of dead crabs
and dead and dying seals
suffering from leptospirosis.
While a majority of dead
zones are less than 1,000
square kilometers, the
largest is over 70,000
square kilometers in size.
We're taking out the rain
forests and our forests here.
We're raping the
forests right now.
It's the same thing.
When you aggravate
that with the pollution
and with the increase in
CO2 and other emissions,
we're actually on a fast
track to extinction.
NARRATOR: Scientists
may not use the words
fast track to extinction.
The pollution has been
building and accelerating
around the world for centuries.
Other scientists
have been monitoring
global warming and melting
ice caps for decades.
Satellite tracking
over Antarctica
is helping supply
information on how rapidly
that continent is
seeing its ice sheets
and glaciers crumble and melt.
Since the recent breakup
of the Larsen B ice shelf,
glaciers in Antarctica have
been moving toward the ocean
up to eight times
faster than previously.
And at the other
end of the world,
decades of strange behavior.
Once the ice reflected
sunlight back into space.
But as the ice melts,
more sunlight hits
the water, heating the ocean.
And that accelerates
next season's ice melt.
And this is what's happened
in just the past 25 years.
[MARINE SOUNDS]
The serious consequence of
all that fresh water flowing
into the ocean is that the
Atlantic conveyor belt,
the current that regulates
climate around the world,
will eventually stall.
A report commissioned for
the US Department of Defense
says that could happen
abruptly and Europe
will have a Siberian climate.
The sun is building to a
period of solar maximum storms.
Nothing like it has been
seen since the world
became dependent on microchips.
Huge coronal mass
ejections are expected.
One of these could knock
out everything on Earth that
generates or uses electricity.
A small flame in December
2006 disrupted airplane GPS
landing systems for 15 minutes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Although few dare
mention it, James says
a dire scenario is unfolding.
This same scenario has been
gone over again and again
and again, ending up in major
cataclysms on the planet,
both brought about naturally
and also through technology.
We're moving into this
same epic, you might say,
journey where we're
right at the apex of it
again where we're
going to choose
are we going to destroy
ourselves and allow technology
to supersede spirituality?
Or are we going to go through
a major spiritual awakening
and realize that we live in this
incredible sea of consciousness
like quantum physics tells us?
That everything is connected?
NARRATOR: Just how
connected is the Earth?
That is graphical you
illustrated in this US
Geological Survey website
animation that shows just one
week of earthquake activity.
The bigger the square,
the bigger the quake.
And they're happening
all the time.
Note how the Kuril Islands,
between Russia and Japan,
which have experienced regular
5 plus quakes for months
has an 8.5 and then a 6.1
quake on the same day.
Tsunami warnings were issued,
but fortunately nothing
like the devastating
2004 Banda Aceh tsunami
occurred this time.
That one took almost a
quarter million lives.
You know, we need to get
our act together and realize
that what's more important.
Making that almighty
dollar or taking a breath?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
NARRATOR: James
has his detractors.
Critics, he says, who suffer
from cognitive dissonance,
which raises an
interesting question.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
There's a question.
I've always wanted to
ask a tractor driver,
and that is what is
cognitive dissonance?
Well, cognitive dissonance is
the total inability to accept
any belief outside of your own.
NARRATOR: Does that translate,
perhaps, in other definition
as a closed mind?
-Yes.
No matter how much evidence
or how much proof you give
somebody, they'll automatically
just refuse to accept
any reality outside their own.
NARRATOR: Is this a
widespread disorder?
I'd say most of the
Earth is suffering to one
degree or another with it.
NARRATOR: And there's a cure?
I believe the cure is
to just, again, you know,
face life with an open mind, a
loving heart, and pure intent.
And allow the universe
to teach you things.
NARRATOR: But are
we willing to learn
that UFOs can look like clouds?
JAMES: They could be actually
sitting within a cloud
and watching us at any time.
But I'm not saying
all clouds are UFOs.
There are natural formations
of clouds that are lenticular
and others of that nature.
But it is highly possible that
the fields around the UFOs
generate kind of a cloud
formation around the ship.
They're talking a
lot about the future
and how we have to
prepare and there's
going to be a lot of clean up
on every level of consciousness,
the environment, everything.
And nature is going to be
very active in this process.
As far as nature is concerned,
our whole heliosphere,
our solar system, is moving
to a new place in the universe
where there is-- the
leading edge of it
as we're moving is
1,000 times brighter.
And all the planets
are heating up.
They're putting out
four times more light.
They're going through
atmospheric changes.
The sun is reacting
to this, throwing off
massive coronal mass
ejections and solar flares.
And that's affecting
our weather.
It's affecting
our communication.
It's affecting our
consciousness as well.
We've just seen the beginning
of the Earth changes.
They're going to escalate.
It's going to be very intense
in the next couple years.
NARRATOR: James says that
just as there are four seasons
in a year, which means
everything from ants to humans
must prepare for
winter, there are
much longer planetary
cycles of seasons
spanning thousands of years.
And we are in a season of
planetary changes, which
have always involved global
earthquakes, tsunamis,
and volcanic
activity that creates
magma vents like Mount Adams.
Mount Adams has a very, very
long history of UFO activity.
It has at least a
100 year history
of people seeing the ships.
They've got forest rangers
and fire tower operators
and a lot of the police, the
tribal police, everybody.
In the ancient times, they said
that when their wounded were--
people got wounded
or really sick or ill
they used to take them
to a certain place.
And they would come from
the interior of the mountain
and pick their sick
or their wounded
up and take them
into the mountain.
And then the shaman
or the chief would
get a message, like a
telepathic message, it's time.
And they would go back up
and pick their people up
and they'd be completely well.
MALE SPEAKER: Yeah, OK.
I can see the mountain now.
MALE SPEAKER: Whoa.
FEMALE SPEAKER: Yeah, just--
MALE SPEAKER: There it is.
I got it.
FEMALE SPEAKER: See
how bright they are?
MALE SPEAKER: Yeah.
OK.
I've got the mountain.
FEMALE SPEAKER:
Come on, light up.
MALE SPEAKER: Whoa.
FEMALE SPEAKER: Wow.
MALE SPEAKER: I've
got those two guys.
FEMALE SPEAKER: Awesome.
MALE SPEAKER: And
I've got the mountain.
Watching ships power up
and come out of the mountain
and actually go
into the mountain,
they seem to
dematerialize and go
straight through the mountain.
MALE SPEAKER: Oh, there he goes.
There he goes.
Look at him.
Look at him power up.
Did you see that?
MALE SPEAKER: Woohoo.
Yep.
MALE SPEAKER: I got that
whole thing on film.
MALE SPEAKER: I got it.
NARRATOR: For years, James
and others have filmed UFOs
with basic consumer camcorders.
In other words, as James says--
Anybody can shoot UFOs.
All it takes is an open mind, a
loving heart, and pure intent.
And put the thought out there.
And they'll find you eventually.
So it's nothing special
about photographing UFOs.
The establishment
the center here,
there was many levels to it.
One of the levels, the
original name for it,
was Sattva Sanctuary,
which means
to aspire to the highest levels
of wisdom and beauty and art.
And, you know, basically
reach the highest
levels of creativity we can.
And then it involved
into ECETI, which
stands for Enlightened
Contact with Extraterrestrial
Intelligence.
They have transcended
war, disease, poverty.
They've transcended all
religious boundaries
and cultural boundaries.
And they have that wisdom
and that technology
to share with humanity,
which is in direct conflict
with those who are
capitalizing at the expense
of humanity and the earth.
But the main problem is, on
this planet, is the leadership.
And the leadership does
not reflect the desires
and wishes of the masses.
NARRATOR: Is it so hard to
imagine that among the billions
of stars and quadrillions
of planets out there,
there are indeed
greater civilizations.
How hard would it
be to be a greater
civilization than the one
that currently inhabits Earth?
Instead of reaching
for the stars
to meet those greater beings,
we have reached for our guns
and we've become one
of the most warlike
species in the universe.
We use or threaten to use
atomic weapons to ensure peace.
We talk of peace.
We fight for peace.
We kill for peace.
We embrace war.
First of all, there is no
such thing as a holy war.
Every war is because one
king or leader wanted what
another king or leader had.
And that is the main
drive behind--or
motivation behind these wars.
The first greeting we give
these off world visitors
is aggression.
And we send up our
best technologies
in the area to greet them and
attempt to shoot them down,
steal their technology, and
use it in the war industry.
NARRATOR: Meanwhile, lovers
of the Armageddon scenario
and even some of today's feet on
the ground scientists envisage
civilization as we know it
disappearing from this planet,
perhaps much sooner than later.
Some worry that
Earth will eventually
destroy itself with our help.
That's the unspoken end
result of global warming and
increasing natural disasters.
But those who love
Terra, including masters
of the past and present and off
worlders, as James Gilliland
calls them, have all
had a common message
of hope about humanity's
true potential,
which is why they'll set the
example, a spiritual awakening.
I think the common thread
between all of the masters,
and the ETs as well
because they're
giving the same messages
that all of the masters
have been giving for
thousands of years,
and it follows under
the understandings
that there is no
separation omnipresence,
that we're all connected.
We all came from
the same source.
We all go back to
And all of the masters
have given us this message.
And lot of these
messages were inspired
by the ETs over the past and
then got twisted and warped
by kings and institutions.
But the main message right now
that they're giving us is they
are very concerned
with our consciousness
on the Earth and our primitive
aggressive warlike nature.
They want us to let that go.
They want us to release the
past because these old grudges
and old belief systems are
what is creating our tomorrow
and what is creating the wars
and all of the other problems
that we're having.
They want us to stop with
the greed and the competition
and start cooperating
and working together.
We have a golden opportunity
right now to join
the rest of the
universe in peace
and to unite with these beings
that are extremely spiritually
and technologically
advanced, far
beyond anything we can imagine.
And they can assist us to
transcend war and disease
and clean up our environment.
And to me, that's
the ultimate goal.
That's our goal here at
ECETI to bridge the gap
and to rise to the occasion
so we can have these contacts
and can share in
this information.
And that is our whole goal.
And take this information
and disseminate it out
to humanity, the Earth, to
help us in our own quantum leap
in consciousness and evolution.
[MUSIC PLAYING]